docs: move TopK user defined operator example into extending-operators guide (#22871)
apache/datafusion: docs/source/library-user-guide/extending-operators.md

# Extending Operators

DataFusion lets you add operators that are not part of the built-in set. You do this by introducing a custom node into the [`LogicalPlan`], teaching the optimizer to produce it through an [`OptimizerRule`](https://docs.rs/datafusion/latest/datafusion/optimizer/trait.OptimizerRule.html), and providing a matching [`ExecutionPlan`] so the node can run.

This page walks through a complete example -- a `TopK` operator -- and then points to the µWheel project as a larger, real-world case study.

[`logicalplan`]: https://docs.rs/datafusion/latest/datafusion/logical_expr/enum.LogicalPlan.html
[`executionplan`]: https://docs.rs/datafusion/latest/datafusion/physical_plan/trait.ExecutionPlan.html

## A Worked Example: TopK

"Top K" is a common query shape: return the N rows with the largest (or smallest) value of some column. For example, "find the top 3 customers by revenue":

```sql
CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE sales(customer_id VARCHAR, revenue BIGINT)
  STORED AS CSV LOCATION 'tests/data/customer.csv';

SELECT customer_id, revenue FROM sales ORDER BY revenue DESC LIMIT 3;
```

> Out of the box, DataFusion plans this as a `Sort` feeding a `Limit`:

Reviewer: I think we should also note that DataFusion has a much more sophisticated topk implementation built in, but this is just for an example

Maybe we can update the example so it disables the limit pushdown optimizer pass 🤔 

```suggestion
Out of the box, DataFusion already contains an optimized TopK implementation and our example here 
is just for demonstration purposes. If we disable the LimitPushdown optimization, we see the original plan is a `Sort` feeding a `Limit`:
```

```text

> > EXPLAIN SELECT customer_id, revenue FROM sales ORDER BY revenue DESC LIMIT 3;

Reviewer: This is out of date as DataFusion now has a special TopK mode in its sort operator. I recommend we just point this out and then move on with the example

```sql
> EXPLAIN SELECT customer_id, revenue FROM sales ORDER BY revenue DESC LIMIT 3;
+---------------+-------------------------------+
| plan_type     | plan                          |
+---------------+-------------------------------+
| physical_plan | ┌───────────────────────────┐ |
|               | │       SortExec(TopK)      │ |
|               | │    --------------------   │ |
|               | │          limit: 3         │ |
|               | │                           │ |
|               | │       revenue@1 DESC      │ |
|               | └─────────────┬─────────────┘ |
|               | ┌─────────────┴─────────────┐ |
|               | │         EmptyExec         │ |
|               | └───────────────────────────┘ |
|               |                               |
+---------------+-------------------------------+
1 row(s) fetched.
Elapsed 0.020 seconds.

> EXPLAIN FORMAT INDENT SELECT customer_id, revenue FROM sales ORDER BY revenue DESC LIMIT 3;
+---------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| plan_type     | plan                                                                          |
+---------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| logical_plan  | Sort: sales.revenue DESC NULLS FIRST, fetch=3                                 |
|               |   TableScan: sales projection=[customer_id, revenue]                          |
| physical_plan | SortExec: TopK(fetch=3), expr=[revenue@1 DESC], preserve_partitioning=[false] |
|               |   EmptyExec                                                                   |
|               |                                                                               |
+---------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
2 row(s) fetched.
Elapsed 0.004 seconds.

```

        let physical_planner =
            DefaultPhysicalPlanner::with_extension_planners(vec![Arc::new(TopKPlanner {})]);
        physical_planner
            .create_physical_plan(logical_plan, session_state)
            .await
    }
}
```

### Putting It Together

Finally, register the query planner and the optimizer rule on a [`SessionState`](https://docs.rs/datafusion/latest/datafusion/execution/session_state/struct.SessionState.html) and run a query. The optimizer rewrites the `Limit` + `Sort` into a `TopK` node, and the query planner turns it into a `TopKExec`:

```rust,ignore
let config = SessionConfig::new().with_target_partitions(48);
let runtime = Arc::new(RuntimeEnv::default());
let state = SessionStateBuilder::new()
    .with_config(config)
    .with_runtime_env(runtime)
    .with_default_features()
    .with_query_planner(Arc::new(TopKQueryPlanner {}))
    .with_optimizer_rule(Arc::new(TopKOptimizerRule {}))
    .build();
let ctx = SessionContext::new_with_state(state);

// ... register the `sales` table, then:
let df = ctx
    .sql("SELECT customer_id, revenue FROM sales ORDER BY revenue DESC LIMIT 3")
    .await?;

> df.show().await?;

Reviewer: it woudl be great here to update the example to use `assert_batches_eq!` so that the actual output is captured in the example too
